# Tutorialspoint Ts Classes

Source: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/typescript/typescript_classes.htm

TypeScript - Home
TypeScript - Roadmap
TypeScript - Overview
TypeScript - Environment Setup
TypeScript - Basic Syntax
TypeScript vs. JavaScript
TypeScript - Features
TypeScript - Variables
TypeScript - let & const
TypeScript - Operators
TypeScript - Types
TypeScript - Type Annotations
TypeScript - Type Inference
TypeScript - Numbers
TypeScript - Strings
TypeScript - Boolean
TypeScript - Arrays
TypeScript - Tuples
TypeScript - Enums
TypeScript - Any
TypeScript - Never
TypeScript - Union
TypeScript - Literal Types
TypeScript - Symbols
TypeScript - null vs. undefined
TypeScript - Type Aliases
TypeScript Control Flow
TypeScript - Decision Making
TypeScript - If Statement
TypeScript - If Else Statement
TypeScript - Nested If Statements
TypeScript - Switch Statement
TypeScript - Loops
TypeScript - For Loop
TypeScript - While Loop
TypeScript - Do While Loop
TypeScript Functions
TypeScript - Functions
TypeScript - Function Types
TypeScript - Optional Parameters
TypeScript - Default Parameters
TypeScript - Anonymous Functions
TypeScript - Function Constructor
TypeScript - Rest Parameter
TypeScript - Parameter Destructuring
TypeScript - Arrow Functions
TypeScript Interfaces
TypeScript - Interfaces
TypeScript - Extending Interfaces
TypeScript Classes and Objects
TypeScript - Classes
TypeScript - Objects
TypeScript - Access Modifiers
TypeScript - Readonly Properties
TypeScript - Inheritance
TypeScript - Static Methods and Properties
TypeScript - Abstract Classes
TypeScript - Accessors
TypeScript - Duck-Typing
TypeScript Advanced Types
TypeScript - Intersection Types
TypeScript - Type Guards
TypeScript - Type Assertions
TypeScript Type Manipulation
TypeScript - Creating Types from Types
TypeScript - Keyof Type Operator
TypeScript - Typeof Type Operator
TypeScript - Indexed Access Types
TypeScript - Conditional Types
TypeScript - Mapped Types
TypeScript - Template Literal Types
TypeScript Generics
TypeScript - Generics
TypeScript - Generic Constraints
TypeScript - Generic Interfaces
TypeScript - Generic Classes
TypeScript Miscellaneous
TypeScript - Triple-Slash Directives
TypeScript - Namespaces
TypeScript - Modules
TypeScript - Ambients
TypeScript - Decorators
TypeScript - Type Compatibility
TypeScript - Date Object
TypeScript - Iterators and Generators
TypeScript - Mixins
TypeScript - Utility Types
TypeScript - Boxing and Unboxing
TypeScript - tsconfig.json
From JavaScript To TypeScript
TypeScript Useful Resources
TypeScript - Quick Guide
TypeScript - Cheatsheet
TypeScript - Useful Resources
TypeScript - Discussion
Selected Reading
UPSC IAS Exams Notes
Developer's Best Practices
Questions and Answers
Online Resume Builder
HR Interview Questions
Computer Glossary
Who is Who
TypeScript - Classes
Previous
Quiz
Next
TypeScript is object oriented JavaScript. TypeScript supports object-oriented programming features like classes, interfaces, etc. A class in terms of OOP is a blueprint for creating objects. A class encapsulates data for the object. Typescript gives built in support for this concept called class. JavaScript ES5 or earlier didnt support classes. Typescript gets this feature from ES6.
Creating classes
Use the class keyword to declare a class in TypeScript. The syntax for the same is given below −
Syntax
class class_name { 
   //class scope 
The class keyword is followed by the class name. The rules for identifiers must be considered while naming a class.
A class definition can include the following −
Fields
− A field is any variable declared in a class. Fields represent data pertaining to objects
Constructors
− Responsible for allocating memory for the objects of the class
Functions
− Functions represent actions an object can take. They are also at times referred to as methods
These components put together are termed as the data members of the class.
Consider a class Person in typescript.
class Person {
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var Person = (function () {
   function Person() {
   return Person;
}());
Example: Declaring a class
class Car { 
   //field 
   engine:string; 
   //constructor 
   constructor(engine:string) { 
      this.engine = engine 
   //function 
   disp():void { 
      console.log("Engine is  :   "+this.engine) 
The example declares a class Car. The class has a field named engine. The
keyword is not used while declaring a field. The example above declares a constructor for the class.
A constructor is a special function of the class that is responsible for initializing the variables of the class. TypeScript defines a constructor using the constructor keyword. A constructor is a function and hence can be parameterized.
this
keyword refers to the current instance of the class. Here, the parameter name and the name of the classs field are the same. Hence to avoid ambiguity, the classs field is prefixed with the
this
keyword.
disp()
is  a simple function definition. Note that the function keyword is not used here.
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var Car = (function () {
   //constructor
   function Car(engine) {
      this.engine = engine;
   //function
   Car.prototype.disp = function () {
      console.log("Engine is  :   " + this.engine);
   return Car;
}());
Creating Instance objects
To create an instance of the class, use the
keyword followed by the class name. The syntax for the same is given below −
Syntax
var object_name = new class_name([ arguments ])
keyword is responsible for instantiation.
The right-hand side of the expression invokes the constructor. The constructor should be passed values if it is parameterized.
Example: Instantiating a class
var obj = new Car("Engine 1")
Accessing Attributes and Functions
A classs attributes and functions can be accessed through the object. Use the  .  dot notation (called as the period) to access the data members of a class.
//accessing an attribute 
obj.field_name 
//accessing a function 
obj.function_name()
Example: Putting them together
class Car { 
   //field 
   engine:string; 
   //constructor 
   constructor(engine:string) { 
      this.engine = engine 
   //function 
   disp():void { 
      console.log("Function displays Engine is  :   "+this.engine) 
//create an object 
var obj = new Car("XXSY1")
//access the field 
console.log("Reading attribute value Engine as :  "+obj.engine)  
//access the function
obj.disp()
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var Car = (function () {
   //constructor
   function Car(engine) {
      this.engine = engine;
   //function
   Car.prototype.disp = function () {
      console.log("Function displays Engine is  :   " + this.engine);
   return Car;
}());
//create an object
var obj = new Car("XXSY1");
//access the field
console.log("Reading attribute value Engine as :  " + obj.engine);
//access the function
obj.disp();
The output of the above code is as follows −
Reading attribute value Engine as :  XXSY1 
Function displays Engine is  :   XXSY1
Class Inheritance
TypeScript supports the concept of Inheritance. Inheritance is the ability of a program to create new classes from an existing class. The class that is extended to create newer classes is called the parent class/super class. The newly created classes are called the child/sub classes.
A class inherits from another class using the extends keyword. Child classes inherit all properties and methods except private members and constructors from the parent class.
Syntax
class child_class_name extends parent_class_name
However, TypeScript doesnt support multiple inheritance.
Example: Class Inheritance
class Shape { 
   Area:number 
   constructor(a:number) { 
      this.Area = a 
class Circle extends Shape { 
   disp():void { 
      console.log("Area of the circle:  "+this.Area) 
var obj = new Circle(223); 
obj.disp()
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var __extends = (this && this.__extends) || function (d, b) {
   for (var p in b) if (b.hasOwnProperty(p)) d[p] = b[p];
   function __() { this.constructor = d; }
   d.prototype = b === null ? Object.create(b) : (__.prototype = b.prototype, new __());
var Shape = (function () {
   function Shape(a) {
      this.Area = a;
   return Shape;
}());
var Circle = (function (_super) {
   __extends(Circle, _super);
   function Circle() {
      _super.apply(this, arguments);
   Circle.prototype.disp = function () { 
      console.log("Area of the circle:  " + this.Area); 
   return Circle;
}(Shape));
var obj = new Circle(223);
obj.disp();
The output of the above code is as follows −
Area of the Circle: 223
The above example declares a class Shape. The class is extended by the Circle class. Since there is an inheritance relationship between the classes, the child class i.e. the class Car gets an implicit access to its parent class attribute i.e. area.
Inheritance can be classified as −
Single
− Every class can at the most extend from one parent class
Multiple
− A class can inherit from multiple classes. TypeScript doesnt support multiple inheritance.
Multi-level
− The following example shows how multi-level inheritance works.
Example
class Root { 
   str:string; 
class Child extends Root {} 
class Leaf extends Child {} //indirectly inherits from Root by virtue of inheritance  
var obj = new Leaf(); 
obj.str ="hello" 
console.log(obj.str)
The class Leaf derives the attributes from Root and Child classes by virtue of multi-level inheritance.
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var __extends = (this && this.__extends) || function (d, b) {
   for (var p in b) if (b.hasOwnProperty(p)) d[p] = b[p];
   function __() { this.constructor = d; }
   d.prototype = b === null ? Object.create(b) : (__.prototype = b.prototype, new __());
var Root = (function () {
   function Root() {
   return Root;
}());
var Child = (function (_super) {
   __extends(Child, _super);
   function Child() {
      _super.apply(this, arguments);
   return Child;
}(Root));
var Leaf = (function (_super) {
   __extends(Leaf, _super);
   function Leaf() {
      _super.apply(this, arguments);
   return Leaf;
}(Child));
var obj = new Leaf();
obj.str = "hello";
console.log(obj.str);
Its output is as follows −
Output
hello
TypeScript  Class inheritance and Method Overriding
Method Overriding is a mechanism by which the child class redefines the superclasss method. The following example illustrates the same −
class PrinterClass { 
   doPrint():void {
      console.log("doPrint() from Parent called") 
class StringPrinter extends PrinterClass { 
   doPrint():void { 
      super.doPrint() 
      console.log("doPrint() is printing a string")
var obj = new StringPrinter() 
obj.doPrint()
The super keyword is used to refer to the immediate parent of a class. The keyword can be used to refer to the super class version of a variable, property or method. Line 13 invokes the super class version of the doWork() function.
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var __extends = (this && this.__extends) || function (d, b) {
   for (var p in b) if (b.hasOwnProperty(p)) d[p] = b[p];
   function __() { this.constructor = d; }
   d.prototype = b === null ? Object.create(b) : (__.prototype = b.prototype, new __());
var PrinterClass = (function () {
   function PrinterClass() {
   PrinterClass.prototype.doPrint = function () { 
      console.log("doPrint() from Parent called"); 
   return PrinterClass;
}());
var StringPrinter = (function (_super) {
   __extends(StringPrinter, _super);
   function StringPrinter() {
      _super.apply(this, arguments);
   StringPrinter.prototype.doPrint = function () {
      _super.prototype.doPrint.call(this);
      console.log("doPrint() is printing a string");
   return StringPrinter;
}(PrinterClass));
var obj = new StringPrinter();
obj.doPrint();
The output of the above code is as follows −
doPrint() from Parent called 
doPrint() is printing a string
The static Keyword
The static keyword can be applied to the data members of a class. A static variable retains its values till the program finishes execution. Static members are referenced by the class name.
Example
class StaticMem {  
   static num:number; 
   static disp():void { 
      console.log("The value of num is"+ StaticMem.num) 
StaticMem.num = 12     // initialize the static variable 
StaticMem.disp()      // invoke the static method
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var StaticMem = (function () {
   function StaticMem() {
   StaticMem.disp = function () {
      console.log("The value of num is" + StaticMem.num);
   return StaticMem;
}());
StaticMem.num = 12;     // initialize the static variable
StaticMem.disp();      // invoke the static method
The output of the above code is as follows −
The value of num is 12
The instanceof operator
instanceof
operator returns true if the object belongs to the specified type.
Example
class Person{ } 
var obj = new Person() 
var isPerson = obj instanceof Person; 
console.log(" obj is an instance of Person " + isPerson);
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var Person = (function () {
   function Person() {
   return Person;
}());
var obj = new Person();
var isPerson = obj instanceof Person;
console.log(" obj is an instance of Person " + isPerson);
The output of the above code is as follows −
obj is an instance of Person True
Data Hiding
A class can control the visibility of its data members to members of other classes. This capability is termed as Data Hiding or Encapsulation.
Object Orientation uses the concept of access modifiers or access specifiers to implement the concept of Encapsulation. The access specifiers/modifiers define the visibility of a classs data members outside its defining class.
The access modifiers supported by TypeScript are −
S.No.
Access Specifier & Description
public
A public data member has universal accessibility. Data members in a class are public by default.
private
Private data members are accessible only within the class that defines these members. If an external class member tries to access a private member, the compiler throws an error.
protected
A protected data member is accessible by the members within the same class as that of the former and also by the members of the child classes.
Example
Let us now take an example to see how data hiding works −
class Encapsulate { 
   str:string = "hello" 
   private str2:string = "world" 
var obj = new Encapsulate() 
console.log(obj.str)     //accessible 
console.log(obj.str2)   //compilation Error as str2 is private
The class has two string attributes, str1 and str2, which are public and private members respectively. The class is instantiated. The example returns a compile time error, as the private attribute str2 is accessed outside the class that declares it.
Classes and Interfaces
Classes can also implement interfaces.
interface ILoan { 
   interest:number 
class AgriLoan implements ILoan { 
   interest:number 
   rebate:number 
   constructor(interest:number,rebate:number) { 
      this.interest = interest 
      this.rebate = rebate 
var obj = new AgriLoan(10,1) 
console.log("Interest is : "+obj.interest+" Rebate is : "+obj.rebate )
The class AgriLoan implements the interface Loan. Hence, it is now binding on the class to include the property
interest
as its member.
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var AgriLoan = (function () {
   function AgriLoan(interest, rebate) {
      this.interest = interest;
      this.rebate = rebate;
   return AgriLoan;
}());
var obj = new AgriLoan(10, 1);
console.log("Interest is : " + obj.interest + " Rebate is : " + obj.rebate);
The output of the above code is as follows −
Interest is : 10 Rebate is : 1
Print Page
Previous
Quiz
Next
Advertisements
