# Tutorialspoint Ts Variables

Source: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/typescript/typescript_variables.htm

TypeScript - Home
TypeScript - Roadmap
TypeScript - Overview
TypeScript - Environment Setup
TypeScript - Basic Syntax
TypeScript vs. JavaScript
TypeScript - Features
TypeScript - Variables
TypeScript - let & const
TypeScript - Operators
TypeScript - Types
TypeScript - Type Annotations
TypeScript - Type Inference
TypeScript - Numbers
TypeScript - Strings
TypeScript - Boolean
TypeScript - Arrays
TypeScript - Tuples
TypeScript - Enums
TypeScript - Any
TypeScript - Never
TypeScript - Union
TypeScript - Literal Types
TypeScript - Symbols
TypeScript - null vs. undefined
TypeScript - Type Aliases
TypeScript Control Flow
TypeScript - Decision Making
TypeScript - If Statement
TypeScript - If Else Statement
TypeScript - Nested If Statements
TypeScript - Switch Statement
TypeScript - Loops
TypeScript - For Loop
TypeScript - While Loop
TypeScript - Do While Loop
TypeScript Functions
TypeScript - Functions
TypeScript - Function Types
TypeScript - Optional Parameters
TypeScript - Default Parameters
TypeScript - Anonymous Functions
TypeScript - Function Constructor
TypeScript - Rest Parameter
TypeScript - Parameter Destructuring
TypeScript - Arrow Functions
TypeScript Interfaces
TypeScript - Interfaces
TypeScript - Extending Interfaces
TypeScript Classes and Objects
TypeScript - Classes
TypeScript - Objects
TypeScript - Access Modifiers
TypeScript - Readonly Properties
TypeScript - Inheritance
TypeScript - Static Methods and Properties
TypeScript - Abstract Classes
TypeScript - Accessors
TypeScript - Duck-Typing
TypeScript Advanced Types
TypeScript - Intersection Types
TypeScript - Type Guards
TypeScript - Type Assertions
TypeScript Type Manipulation
TypeScript - Creating Types from Types
TypeScript - Keyof Type Operator
TypeScript - Typeof Type Operator
TypeScript - Indexed Access Types
TypeScript - Conditional Types
TypeScript - Mapped Types
TypeScript - Template Literal Types
TypeScript Generics
TypeScript - Generics
TypeScript - Generic Constraints
TypeScript - Generic Interfaces
TypeScript - Generic Classes
TypeScript Miscellaneous
TypeScript - Triple-Slash Directives
TypeScript - Namespaces
TypeScript - Modules
TypeScript - Ambients
TypeScript - Decorators
TypeScript - Type Compatibility
TypeScript - Date Object
TypeScript - Iterators and Generators
TypeScript - Mixins
TypeScript - Utility Types
TypeScript - Boxing and Unboxing
TypeScript - tsconfig.json
From JavaScript To TypeScript
TypeScript Useful Resources
TypeScript - Quick Guide
TypeScript - Cheatsheet
TypeScript - Useful Resources
TypeScript - Discussion
Selected Reading
UPSC IAS Exams Notes
Developer's Best Practices
Questions and Answers
Online Resume Builder
HR Interview Questions
Computer Glossary
Who is Who
TypeScript - Variables
Previous
Quiz
Next
A variable, by definition, is a named space in the memory that stores values. In other words, it acts as a container for values in a program. TypeScript variables must follow the JavaScript naming rules −
Variable names can contain alphabets and numeric digits.
They cannot contain spaces and special characters, except the underscore (_) and the dollar (&dollar;) sign.
Variable names cannot begin with a digit.
A variable must be declared before it is used. Use the
keyword to declare variables.
Variable Declaration in TypeScript
The type syntax for declaring a variable in TypeScript is to include a colon (:) after the variable name, followed by its type. Just as in JavaScript, we use the
keyword to declare a variable.
When you declare a variable, you have four options −
Declare its type and value in one statement.
Declare its type but no value. In this case, the variable will be set to undefined.
Declare its value but no type. The variable type will be set to the data type of the assigned value.
Declare neither value not type. In this case, the data type of the variable will be any and will be initialized to undefined.
The following table illustrates the valid syntax for variable declaration as discussed above −
S.No.
Variable Declaration Syntax & Description
var name:string = mary
The variable stores a value of type string
var name:string;
The variable is a string variable. The variables value is set to undefined by default
var name = mary
The variables type is inferred from the data type of the value. Here, the variable is of the type string
var name;
The variables data type is any. Its value is set to undefined by default.
Example: Variables in TypeScript
var name:string = "John"; 
var score1:number = 50;
var score2:number = 42.50
var sum = score1 + score2 
console.log("name"+name) 
console.log("first score: "+score1) 
console.log("second score: "+score2) 
console.log("sum of the scores: "+sum)
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var name = "John";
var score1 = 50;
var score2 = 42.50;
var sum = score1 + score2;
console.log("name" + name);
console.log("first score: " + score1);
console.log("second score : " + score2);
console.log("sum of the scores: " + sum);
The output of the above program is given below −
name:John 
first score:50 
second score:42.50 
sum of the scores:92.50
The TypeScript compiler will generate errors, if we attempt to assign a value to a variable that is not of the same type. Hence, TypeScript follows Strong Typing. The Strong typing syntax ensures that the types specified on either side of the assignment operator (=) are the same. This is why the following code will result in a compilation error −
var num:number = "hello"     // will result in a compilation error
Type Assertion in TypeScript
TypeScript allows changing a variable from one type to another. TypeScript refers to this process as
Type Assertion
. The syntax is to put the target type between < > symbols and place it in front of the variable or expression. The following example explains this concept −
Example
var str = '1' 
var str2:number = <number> <any> str   //str is now of type number 
console.log(typeof(str2))
If you hover the mouse pointer over the type assertion statement in Visual Studio Code, it displays the change in the variables data type. Basically it allows the assertion from type S to T succeed if either S is a subtype of T or T is a subtype of S.
The reason why it's not called "type casting" is that casting generally implies some sort of runtime support while, type assertions are purely a compile time construct and a way for you to provide hints to the compiler on how you want your code to be analyzed.
On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code.
"use strict";
var str = '1';
var str2 = str; //str is now of type number 
console.log(typeof (str2));
It will produce the following output −
string
Inferred Typing in TypeScript
Given the fact that, Typescript is strongly typed, this feature is optional. TypeScript also encourages dynamic typing of variables. This means that, TypeScript encourages declaring a variable without a type. In such cases, the compiler will determine the type of the variable on the basis of the value assigned to it. TypeScript will find the first usage of the variable within the code, determine the type to which it has been initially set and then assume the same type for this variable in the rest of your code block.
The same is explained in the following code snippet −
Example: Inferred Typing
var num = 2;    // data type inferred as  number 
console.log("value of num "+num); 
num = "12";
console.log(num);
In the above code snippet −
The code declares a variable and sets its value to 2. Note that the variable declaration doesnt specify the data type. Hence, the program uses inferred typing to determine the data type of the variable, i.e., it assigns the type of the first value that the variable is set to. In this case,
is set to the type number.
When the code tries to set the variables value to string. The compiler throws an error as the variables type is already set to number.
It will produce the following output −
error TS2011: Cannot convert 'string' to 'number'.
TypeScript Variable Scope
The scope of a variable specifies where the variable is defined. The availability of a variable within a program is determined by its scope. TypeScript variables can be of the following scopes −
Global Scope
− Global variables are declared outside the programming constructs. These variables can be accessed from anywhere within your code.
Class Scope
− These variables are also called
fields
. Fields or class variables are declared within the class but outside the methods. These variables can be accessed using the object of the class. Fields can also be static. Static fields can be accessed using the class name.
Local Scope
− Local variables, as the name suggests, are declared within the constructs like methods, loops etc. Local variables are accessible only within the construct where they are declared.
The following example illustrates variable scopes in TypeScript.
Example: Variable Scope
var global_num = 12          //global variable 
class Numbers { 
   num_val = 13;             //class variable 
   static sval = 10;         //static field 
   storeNum():void { 
      var local_num = 14;    //local variable 
console.log("Global num: "+global_num)  
console.log(Numbers.sval)   //static variable  
var obj = new Numbers(); 
console.log("Global num: "+obj.num_val)
On transpiling, the following JavaScript code is generated −
var global_num = 12;              //global variable 
var Numbers = (function () {
   function Numbers() {
      this.num_val = 13;          //class variable 
   Numbers.prototype.storeNum = function () {
      var local_num = 14;        //local variable 
   Numbers.sval = 10;            //static field 
   return Numbers;
}());
console.log("Global num: " + global_num);
console.log(Numbers.sval);       //static variable  
var obj = new Numbers();
console.log("Global num: " + obj.num_val);
It will produce the following output −
Global num: 12
Global num: 13
If you try accessing the local variable outside the method, it results in a compilation error.
error TS2095: Could not find symbol 'local_num'.
Print Page
Previous
Quiz
Next
Advertisements
